Real cluster option and labelling (#93)
kyma-project/btp-manager: docs/testing.md

## Run unit tests using CLI

To run unit tests from the command line, use the following command from the BTP Manager main directory: 

```shell
make test
```
Details concerning `test` rule (prerequisites and recipe) are defined in `./Makefile`.

By default, unit tests are run using `env-test` cluster. 
Part of unit tests is implemented using [gingko](https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/#top) library, but all unit tests are invoked using `go test ./... <some options>`

> You can find exact invocation reflected in the console output along with messages confirming whether `env-test` is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the exact invocation reflected in the console output along with messages confirming whether the envtest is used.
```

```
STEP: bootstrapping test environment @ 01/13/23 08:24:45.981
2023-01-13T08:24:45.981+0100  DEBUG   controller-runtime.test-env     starting control plane
```

### Run unit tests on existing cluster

> You can run tests on an existing cluster (not the `env-test`) setting the value of the environment variable `USE_EXISTING_CLUSTER` to true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run the tests on an existing cluster (not the envtest) setting the value of the environment variable **USE_EXISTING_CLUSTER** to `true`.
```

```shell
USE_EXISTING_CLUSTER=true make test
```

> > **NOTE:** Test suite assumes the proper state of the cluster before running. If problems with left-over resources occur, you can recreate the cluster or remove resources manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** The test suite assumes the proper state of the cluster before running. If problems with left-over resources occur, you can recreate the cluster or remove resources manually.
```

### Test output verbosity

> Setting for the `go test` verbosity is `-v` (verbose, print the full output event for passing tests). This can be changed in `make` recipe. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The setting for the `go test` verbosity is `-v` (verbose, print the full output event for passing tests). This can be changed in the `make` recipe. 
```

> For `ginkgo` tests execution default setting is `-ginkgo.v` (verbose) and can be changed e.g. for `very verbose` by setting environment variable `GINKGO_VERBOSE_FLAG`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the `ginkgo` tests execution, the default setting is `-ginkgo.v` (verbose). It can be changed, for example, for `very verbose` by setting the environment variable **GINKGO_VERBOSE_FLAG**.
```

> Allowed values are: `ginkgo.succinct`, `ginkgo.v`, `ginkgo.vv`. Accordingly, the output level will be: succinct, verbose, very verbose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The allowed values are: `ginkgo.succinct`, `ginkgo.v`, or `ginkgo.vv`. Accordingly, the output level will be: succinct, verbose, or very verbose.
```

```shell
GINKGO_VERBOSE_FLAG="ginkgo.vv" make test
```

### Filtering labels

> You can use `gingko` library labeling features to filter which tests specs are to be executed 
> (for details see [Spec Labels](https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/#spec-labels) in ginkgo documentation). In order to use labels for filtering 
> you need to instrument the test nodes (`Describe`, `It`, `When` et al.) in `./controllers/btpoperator_controller_test.go` with labels e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `gingko` library labeling features to filter which tests specs are to be executed. 
For more details, see [Spec Labels](https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/#spec-labels) in ginkgo documentation. To use labels for filtering, 
you need to instrument the test nodes (`Describe`, `It`, `When` et al.) in `./controllers/btpoperator_controller_test.go` with labels, for example:
```

```go
	Describe("Provisioning", Label("test-provisioning", "smoke-test"), func() {
```
```go
	Describe("Deprovisioning", Label("test-deprovisioning"), func() {
```

> You can use labels either by setting `GINKGO_LABEL_FILTER` variable. For example to run only specs labeled as `smoke-test`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use labels by setting the **GINKGO_LABEL_FILTER** variable. For example, to run only the specs labeled as `smoke-test`:
```

```shell
GINKGO_VERBOSE_FLAG="smoke-test" make test
```

Another example of simple expression:
```shell

> GINKGO_VERBOSE_FLAG="test-provisioning,test-deprovisioning" make test

Reviewer 2: verbose with labels? how it works

```

### Environment variables

> All above-mentioned environment variables can be also set in `testing/set-env-vars.sh`. The script sets default values for all environment variables used in `go test` invocation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the above-mentioned environment variables can also be set in `testing/set-env-vars.sh`. The script sets the default values for all the environment variables used in the `go test` invocation. 
```

> Changing script contents is recommended when more complex filtering expression is required, or you frequently reuse the setting. However, you should not push the changes without considering 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changing the script contents is recommended if a more complex filtering expression is required, or if you frequently reuse the setting. However, do not push the changes without considering 
```

how this affects Github Actions workflows.

> ### Running test suite with IDE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Running test suite with IDE
```

> You can define environment variables in the Run Configuration and in effect run tests on existing cluster changing logs verbosity and using filtering features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define the environment variables in the Run Configuration and run the tests on an existing cluster by changing logs verbosity and using filtering features.
```

> ---
> title: Run unit tests
> ---
> ##Run unit tests using CLI 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
title: Run unit tests
---

## Run unit tests using CLI 

```

To run the unit tests from the command line, use the following command from the BTP Manager main directory: 

```shell
make test
```
The details concerning the `test` rule (prerequisites and recipe) are defined in `./Makefile`.

By default, the unit tests are run using the envtest cluster. 
Some of the unit tests are implemented using the [Gingko](https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/#top) library, but all the unit tests are invoked using the `go test ./... <some options>`.
You can find the exact invocation reflected in the console output along with messages confirming whether the envtest is used.
```
STEP: bootstrapping test environment @ 01/13/23 08:24:45.981
2023-01-13T08:24:45.981+0100  DEBUG   controller-runtime.test-env     starting control plane
```

### Run unit tests on existing cluster

> You can run the tests on an existing cluster (not the envtest) setting the value of the environment variable **USE_EXISTING_CLUSTER** to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run the tests on an existing cluster (not the envtest cluster) setting the value of the environment variable **USE_EXISTING_CLUSTER** to `true`.
```

```shell
USE_EXISTING_CLUSTER=true make test
```

> **NOTE:** The test suite assumes the proper state of the cluster before running. If problems with left-over resources occur, you can recreate the cluster or remove resources manually.

### Test output verbosity

The setting for the `go test` verbosity is `-v` (verbose, print the full output event for passing tests). This can be changed in the `make` recipe. 
For the `Ginkgo` tests execution, the default setting is `-ginkgo.v` (verbose). It can be changed, for example, for `very verbose` by setting the environment variable **GINKGO_VERBOSE_FLAG**.
The allowed values are: `ginkgo.succinct`, `ginkgo.v`, or `ginkgo.vv`. Accordingly, the output level will be: succinct, verbose, or very verbose.

```shell
GINKGO_VERBOSE_FLAG="ginkgo.vv" make test
```

### Filtering labels
You can use the Ginkgo library labeling features to filter which tests specs are to be executed. 

> For more details, see [Spec Labels](https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/#spec-labels) in ginkgo documentation. To use labels for filtering, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, see [Spec Labels](https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/#spec-labels) in Ginkgo documentation. To use labels for filtering, 
```

you need to instrument the test nodes (`Describe`, `It`, `When` et al.) in `./controllers/btpoperator_controller_test.go` with labels, for example:
```go
	Describe("Provisioning", Label("test-provisioning", "smoke-test"), func() {
```
```go
	Describe("Deprovisioning", Label("test-deprovisioning"), func() {
```

You can use labels by setting the **GINKGO_LABEL_FILTER** variable. For example, to run only the specs labeled as `smoke-test`:
```shell
GINKGO_VERBOSE_FLAG="smoke-test" make test
```

> Another example of simple expression:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is another example of a simple expression:
```

```shell
GINKGO_VERBOSE_FLAG="test-provisioning,test-deprovisioning" make test
```

### Environment variables

> All above-mentioned environment variables can be also set in `testing/set-env-vars.sh`. The script sets default values for all environment variables used in `go test` invocation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the above-mentioned environment variables can be also set in `testing/set-env-vars.sh`. The script sets default values for all environment variables used in the `go test` invocation. 
```

> Changing script contents is recommended when more complex filtering expression is required, or you frequently reuse the setting. However, you should not push the changes without considering 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changing the script contents is recommended if a more complex filtering expression is required, or if you frequently reuse the setting. However, you should not push the changes without considering 
```

how this affects Github Actions workflows.

### Running test suite with IDE

> You can define environment variables in the Run Configuration and in effect run tests on existing cluster changing logs verbosity and using filtering features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define environment variables in Run Configuration, run tests, change logs verbosity and use filtering features on an existing cluster.
```

you need to instrument the test nodes (`Describe`, `It`, `When` et al.) in `./controllers/btpoperator_controller_test.go` with labels, for example:
```go
	Describe("Provisioning", Label("test-provisioning", "smoke-test"), func() {
```
```go
	Describe("Deprovisioning", Label("test-deprovisioning"), func() {
```

You can use labels by setting the **GINKGO_LABEL_FILTER** variable. For example, to run only the specs labeled as `smoke-test`:
```shell
GINKGO_VERBOSE_FLAG="smoke-test" make test
```

Here is another example of a simple expression:
```shell
GINKGO_VERBOSE_FLAG="test-provisioning,test-deprovisioning" make test
```

### Environment variables

All the above-mentioned environment variables can also be set in `testing/set-env-vars.sh`. The script sets the default values for all the environment variables used in the `go test` invocation. 
Changing the script contents is recommended if a more complex filtering expression is required, or if you frequently reuse the setting. However, you should not push the changes without considering 
how this affects Github Actions workflows.

> ## Running test suite with IDE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Run test suite with IDE
```

> ## Running test suite with IDE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Run test suite with IDE
```
